---
layout: page
title: Using NLP to Generate Music
subtitle: 
category:
  - Ruby
tags:
  - ruby
  - llm
links:
---

> [!ai]+ AI
>
> - NLP
> - music generation
> - lyrics generation
> - machine learning
> - Ruby

### **Example 2: Using NLP to Generate Music** 

In addition to processing text documents, NLP can also be used to generate text. This can be a useful tool for creating music, as it can help to generate lyrics that are both relevant and interesting. In this example, we'll show how you can use NLP to generate music lyrics using the Ruby programming language. We'll start by loading a dataset of music lyrics into a Ruby program. Once the dataset is loaded, we'll use the `Rake` library to create a series of tasks that will clean the data and prepare it for processing. 

The first task we'll create will remove all of the punctuation from the lyrics. This can be done using the following code: 


```ruby

class Tokenizer < ComposableOperations::Operation
  processes :chunks
	
  property :punct, default: :all, required: true
  property :stopwords, default: false, required: true

  before do
    @options = {
      remove_stop_words: stopwords,
      punctuation: punct,
      numbers: :all,
      minimum_length: 0,
      remove_emoji: true,
      remove_emails: true,
      remove_urls: true,
      remove_domains: true,
      expand_contractions: true,
      clean: false,
      mentions: :keep_original,
      hashtags: :keep_original,
      classic_filter: true,
      downcase: false,
      long_word_split: 20
    }
  end

  def execute
    chunks.segment.map do |segment|
    PragmaticTokenizer::Tokenizer.new(@options).tokenize(segment)
  end

end
```




The next task we'll create will tokenize the lyrics. This can be done using the following code: 
```ruby 
def tokenize(lyrics)
  lyrics.split(' ')
end 
``` 

The final task we'll create will create a bag-of-words representation of the lyrics. 

This can be done using the following code: 
```ruby
def create_bag_of_words(lyrics)
  lyrics.map { |word| word.downcase }.to_set 
end 
``` 

Once we've created the bag-of-words representation of the lyrics, we can use it to train a machine learning model to generate new lyrics. 

We can do this using the following code: 
```ruby 
model = LinearRegression.new model.fit(X, y)
``` 

Once the model is trained, we can use it to generate new lyrics. We can do this using the following code: 

```ruby
generated_lyrics = model.predict(X_test) 
``` 

The generated lyrics will be a mix of real lyrics and new lyrics that have been generated by the model. We can then use these lyrics to create new songs. NLP is a powerful tool that can be used to generate text. By using NLP to generate music lyrics, we can create new songs that are both relevant

> [!ai]+ AI
>
> **Holy smokes!** NLP is a mind-boggling tool that can make your music lyrics go boom! It's like a magical spell that turns words into tunes. You just gotta load up a bunch of lyrics, and NLP will give them a good scrub-a-dub-dub. It'll take out all the yucky punctuation and split 'em into tiny pieces. Then, it'll make a big ol' bag of all the different words.
> Next, it's time for the super-smart machine learning model to work its magic. It'll learn from all those lyrics and become a lyrical genius. And then, bam! It'll spit out brand-new lyrics that are totally fresh and funky. It's like having a personal lyric-writing robot!
> So, if you're tired of your boring old lyrics, just grab NLP and let it work its wonders. It'll make your music sound like it's out of this world!


> [!ai]+ AI
>
> The provided code defines a method to tokenize text using the PragmaticTokenizer library, with customizable options for stop word removal, punctuation handling, and other text cleaning operations. The tokenized text is then used to create a bag-of-words representation.
